README.md, before:

# neural-collaborative-filtering
Neural collaborative filtering(NCF), is a deep learning based framework for making recommendations. The key idea is to learn the user-item interaction using neural networks. Check the follwing paper for details about NCF.

> He, Xiangnan, et al. "Neural collaborative filtering." Proceedings of the 26th International Conference on World Wide Web. International World Wide Web Conferences Steering Committee, 2017.

The authors of NCF actually published [a nice implementation](https://github.com/hexiangnan/neural_collaborative_filtering) written in tensorflow(keras). This repo instead provides my implementation written in **pytorch**. I hope it would be helpful to pytorch fans. Have fun playing with it !

## Dataset
[The Movielens 1M Dataset](http://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/1m/) is used to test the repo.

## Files

> `data.py`: prepare train/test dataset
>
> `utils.py`: some handy functions for model training etc.
>
> `metrics.py`: evaluation metrics including hit ratio(HR) and NDCG
>
> `gmf.py`: generalized matrix factorization model
>
> `mlp.py`: multi-layer perceptron model
>
> `neumf.py`: fusion of gmf and mlp
>
> `engine.py`: training engine
>
> `train.py`: entry point for train a NCF model

## Performance
The hyper params are not tuned. Better performance can be achieved with careful tuning, especially for the MLP model. Pretraining the user embedding & item embedding might be helpful to improve the performance of the MLP model. 

## TODO
- [ ] check the pretraining improved version of MLP

Commit message:

Add: performance figures in readme

README.md, after:

# neural-collaborative-filtering
Neural collaborative filtering(NCF), is a deep learning based framework for making recommendations. The key idea is to learn the user-item interaction using neural networks. Check the follwing paper for details about NCF.

> He, Xiangnan, et al. "Neural collaborative filtering." Proceedings of the 26th International Conference on World Wide Web. International World Wide Web Conferences Steering Committee, 2017.

The authors of NCF actually published [a nice implementation](https://github.com/hexiangnan/neural_collaborative_filtering) written in tensorflow(keras). This repo instead provides my implementation written in **pytorch**. I hope it would be helpful to pytorch fans. Have fun playing with it !

## Dataset
[The Movielens 1M Dataset](http://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/1m/) is used to test the repo.

## Files

> `data.py`: prepare train/test dataset
>
> `utils.py`: some handy functions for model training etc.
>
> `metrics.py`: evaluation metrics including hit ratio(HR) and NDCG
>
> `gmf.py`: generalized matrix factorization model
>
> `mlp.py`: multi-layer perceptron model
>
> `neumf.py`: fusion of gmf and mlp
>
> `engine.py`: training engine
>
> `train.py`: entry point for train a NCF model

## Performance
The hyper params are not tuned. Better performance can be achieved with careful tuning, especially for the MLP model. Pretraining the user embedding & item embedding might be helpful to improve the performance of the MLP model. 

Experiments' results with `num_negative_samples = 4` and `dim_latent_factor=8` are shown as follows

![GMF V.S. MLP](./src/figures/factor8neg4.png)

Note that the MLP model was trained from scratch but the authors suggest that the performance might be boosted by pretrain the embedding layer with GMF model.

![NeuMF pretrain V.S no pretrain](./src/figures/neumf_factor8neg4.png)

The pretrained version converges much faster.

## TODO
- [ ] check the pretraining improved version of MLP
